---
title: Resource Identifiers
sidebar_label: Resource Identifiers
---

Kurtosis has multiple methods to identify Kurtosis resources like [enclaves][enclaves], [services][services], and [files artifacts][files-artifacts]. These methods include UUIDs, shortened UUIDs, and names. Together these are called resource identifiers.

A resource identifier is therefore any of the following:

- **UUID:** a UUID, or a Universally Unique Identifier, within Kurtosis is a 32-character hex string generated using [UUID v4][uuidv4]. Kurtosis automatically assigns a UUID to each Kurtosis resource, and this UUID will uniquely identify the resource.
- **Shortened UUID:** A shortened UUID is the first 12 characters of a UUID. As the shortened UUID is just 12 characters, it isn't guaranteed to be unique. If Kurtosis can't uniquely identify a resource by shortened UUID, Kurtosis will inform you about the ambiguity and provide a list of matching full UUIDs.
- **Name:** A name is a human-friendly name for the underlying resource. Names can be specified by you, or autogenerated by Kurtosis. Names are unique at a given point in time - e.g. two enclaves with the same cannot exist at the same point in time. Names are not unique across time, however - e.g. an enclave named `my-enclave` could be created, then deleted, then another enclave named `my-enclave` could be created. If Kurtosis can't uniquely identify a resource by name, Kurtosis will inform you about the ambiguity and provide a list of matching full UUIDs.
 
For example, let's assume an enclave was created with the name `winter-sun`. If you run `kurtosis enclave inspect winter-sun`, you 
might see something like:

```
Name:            winter-sun
UUID:            7a9801627727
Status:          RUNNING
Creation Time:   Sat, 01 Apr 2023 17:36:46 -03

========================================= Files Artifacts =========================================
UUID   Name

========================================== User Services ==========================================
UUID           Name    Ports    Status
8ecdf99e4cf2   nginx   <none>   RUNNING
```

Notice how Kurtosis shows the shortened UUID by default. All CLI commands show
shortened UUIDs by default; if you want to see full UUIDs you can use the `--full-uuids` flag with 
the command. 

Adding the `--full-uuids` flag (`kurtosis enclave inspect winter-sun  --full-uuids`) will print:

```
Name:            winter-sun
UUID:            7a9801627727411a8ee0c697d65401fc
Status:          RUNNING
Creation Time:   Sat, 01 Apr 2023 17:36:46 -03

========================================= Files Artifacts =========================================
UUID   Name

========================================== User Services ==========================================
UUID                               Name    Ports    Status
8ecdf99e4cf244b5be1088c6666a2222   nginx   <none>   RUNNING
```

The [CLI](../cli-reference/introduction.md) or [the client libraries](../client-libs-reference.md) will name various parameters as 
`XXXX-identifier` (e.g. `files-artifact-identifier`). Whenever you see this term, you may use any of UUID, shortened UUID, or name. 

For example, observe the `enclave-identifier` argument name in `kurtosis enclave inspect -h` output:

```
List information about the enclave's status and contents

Usage:
  kurtosis enclave inspect [flags] enclave-identifier

Flags:
      --full-uuids   If true then Kurtosis prints full UUIDs instead of shortened UUIDs. Default false.
  -h, --help         help for inspect

Global Flags:
      --cli-log-level string   Sets the level that the CLI will log at (panic|fatal|error|warning|info|debug|trace) (default "info")
```

Resource Identifiers are supported for the following resources inside of Kurtosis

- [Enclaves][enclaves]
- [Services][services]
- [Files Artifacts][files-artifacts]

<!------------------ ONLY LINKS BELOW HERE -------------------->
[uuidv4]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universally_unique_identifier#Version_4_(random)
[files-artifacts]: ./files-artifacts.md
[services]: ./services.md
[enclaves]: ./enclaves.md
